common/mg-library/procedures/install-db-goldimage/install-db-goldimage.md, before:

# Oracle Database 21c Gold Image

## Introduction

This lab covers:
- Details of the prerequisites and the environment. 
- Steps on how to install Oracle Database 21c gold image on VM. 

## VM access and environment details

Request account access

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>for Uno VM</th>
            <th>for OCI VM</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=4>LDAP DSEE and PDIT NIS unix/linux</td>
            <td row=2>LDAP DSEE and PDIT NIS unix/linux <br>- <b>Login shell:</b> <i>bash</i> or <i>csh</i> <br>- <b>Env or LOB:</b> <i>system LOB (gid=10)</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Kerberos [ADE_Admin] <br>- <b>LOB:</b> DEV</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

<!--
| for Uno VM | for OCI VM |
|------------|------------|
| LDAP DSEE and PDIT NIS unix/linux | LDAP DSEE and PDIT NIS unix/linux <br>Login shell: bash or csh <br> Env or LOB: system LOB (gid=10) |
|                                     | Kerberos [ADE_Admin] |
-->

<ins>Request type</ins>: Select *Application* instance. Entitlements not required.

![Request access](/images/ldap-kerberos-access.png)

### Internal Test Environment

- Host user name: *sso* or *mgarodia*
<if type="hidden">
- TigerVNC pwd: *welcome1*
- LDAP/Kerberos pwd: *Livelabs\*1*
</if>

| VM hostname                                             | Description                           |
|---------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------  |
| phoenix62464.dev1sub1phx.databasede1phx.oraclevcn.com   | OCI machine <br>IP: `100.104.88.84`   |
| slc10wsw.us.oracle.com:2                                | Uno machine <br>User ID: `1477205`    |
|<if type="hidden">phoenix62465.dev1sub1phx.databasede1phx.oraclevcn.com:1 | Suresh Mohan's VM <br>pwd: *welcome1* </if>|
| den03ckl.us.oracle.com:1                                | Temp machine from Subbu <br> cuser:welcome <br>root:Welcome123 |


### Configure VNC

Go to [MyDesktop applications](https://mydesktop.oraclecorp.com/myd_sso/apps.main) and install *PuTTY*, if not already installed. 

**Open PuTTY**

1. In the **PuTTY Configuration** window, enter the following details.

	Host Name (or IP address): Enter the domain (host) name *oracle_uid@slc10wsw.us.oracle.com*   
	login as: <i>GUID</i> [*mgarodia*]   
	Password: <i>pwd</i> <if type="hidden">[*Livelabs\*1*]</if>

	Save the session for future logins.   

1. Set the VNC password. 

	```
	$ <copy>vncpasswd</copy>
	```

1. Start the VNC server.   
	**Note:** Run this command only if the vnc server has stopped or after a system reboot. If the VNC server is already running, then this command <ins>assigns a new incremental port number</ins> to the instance. 

	```
	$ <copy>vncserver</copy>
	```

	```
	perl: warning: Setting locale failed.
	perl: warning: Please check that your locale settings:
		LANGUAGE = (unset),
		LC_ALL = (unset),
		LC_CTYPE = "UTF-8",
		LANG = "en_US.UTF-8"
		are supported and installed on your system.
	perl: warning: Falling back to the standard locale ("C").
	You will require a password to access your desktops.
	```
	
	To stop vncserver - 
	```
	vncserver -kill :x
	```
	where, `x` is the server session (port) number. Refer the [vncserver options](https://linux.die.net/man/1/vncserver) page.
	
1. Enter password to VNC. 

	```
	Password: <Enter password<if type="hidden">- welcome1</if>>
	Verify: <Enter password again<if type="hidden">- welcome1</if>>
	```

1. Enter **n** here.   
	Do not use a view-only password.

	```
	Would you like to enter a view-only password (y/n)? n
	A view-only password is not used

	New 'phoenix62464:1 (mgarodia)' desktop is phoenix62464:1 <-- your port number
	Creating default startup script /home/mgarodia/.vnc/xstartup
	Creating default config /home/mgarodia/.vnc/config
	Starting applications specified in /home/mgarodia/.vnc/xstartup
	Log file is /home/mgarodia/.vnc/phoenix62464:1.log
	```

	Note the (instance) port number assigned; the default is *1*. 
	
1. Open TigerVNC and enter the host name and port number `<hostname>:<port_number>` to connect to the VM.

	**Example 1**
	```
	<copy>phoenix62464.dev1sub1phx.databasede1phx.oraclevcn.com:1</copy>
	```
	<if type="hidden">
	**Example 2**
	```
	<copy>slc10wsw.us.oracle.com:2</copy>
	```
	</if>

## Pre-installation setup

DB install are available as gold images.

1. Visit [DB shiphome gold image annoucements](https://confluence.oraclecorp.com/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=DBTEST&title=Database+Shiphome+Announcement+Home) and look for [21c Linux64](https://confluence.oraclecorp.com/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=2248170665).

1. Under **Shiphome Location**, check <ins>Database Goldimage</ins>. 

	## Database Goldimage

	| Select <i>any</i> server      | Link      |
	|:------------------------------|-----------|
	| SLC - prod                    | [/net/slcnas563.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/210727.PRODUCTION](/net/slcnas563.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/210727.PRODUCTION) <br>File - `LINUX.X64_213000_db_home.zip`       |
	| ADC - prod                    | [/net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/210727.PRODUCTION](/net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/210727.PRODUCTION) <br>File - `LINUX.X64_213000_db_home.zip`       |
	| <mark>ADC</mark> - **latest** |[/net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/LATEST/goldimage](/net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/LATEST/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                        |
	| ADC - 210608                  |[/net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/RC1-210608/goldimage](/net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/RC1-210608/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                     |
	| SaltLake - **latest**         | [/net/slcnas563.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/LATEST/goldimage](/net/slcnas563.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/LATEST/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                        |
	| SaltLake - 210608             | [/net/slcnas563.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/RC1-210608/goldimage](/net/slcnas563.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/RC1-210608/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                     |
	| HQ - **latest**               | [/net/rwsnas436.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0//LATEST/goldimage](/net/rwsnas436.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0//LATEST/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                        |
	| HQ - 210608                   | [/net/rwsnas436.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/RC1-210608/goldimage](/net/rwsnas436.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/RC1-210608/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                     |
	| <mark>ade_autofs</mark> - **new**<br><i>from Prakash J </i> | [/ade\_autofs/dd223\_db/RDBMS/21.3.0.0.0/LINUX.X64/210727.XE/install/shiphome/goldimage](/ade_autofs/dd223_db/RDBMS/21.3.0.0.0/LINUX.X64/210727.XE/install/shiphome/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                                            |
	| ade_autofs - old              | [/ade\_autofs/dd77\_db/RDBMS/21.3.0.0.0/LINUX.X64/210727/install/shiphome/goldimage](/ade_autofs/dd77_db/RDBMS/21.3.0.0.0/LINUX.X64/210727/install/shiphome/goldimage) |

1. Open a terminal window and create the folder structure for `$ORACLE_HOME`.

	```
	$ <copy>mkdir -p /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1</copy>
	```

	> **Caution:** Do all installations only under */scratch*, never in `ade` or any other directory. 

1. Go to the location where the *gold image* exists.   
	This example uses <ins>the ADC server</ins>.

	```
	$ <copy>cd /net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/LATEST/goldimage</copy>
	```

1. Unzip the installer into the Oracle home folder.   

	**Syntax**

	```
	$ unzip -q <file_name> -d <full_path>
	```
	> where,   
	`-q` for quiet operation (run in background)   
	`-d` to create the directory stucture


	**Example 1** - for ADC server
	
	```
	$ <copy>unzip -q db_home.zip -d /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1</copy>
	```

	**Example 2** - for prod

	```
	$ <copy>unzip -q LINUX.X64_213000_db_home.zip -d /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1</copy>
	```

	Get an *extra copy of the installer quickly* on your local system.

	```
	$ <copy>unzip -q /ade_autofs/dd223_db/RDBMS/21.3.0.0.0/LINUX.X64/210727.XE/install/shiphome/goldimage/db_home.zip -d /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_unzip02</copy>
	```

1. Go to Oracle home.
	```
	$ <copy>cd /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1</copy>
	```

1. Run the Oracle Database Setup Wizard (Installer).

	```
	$ <copy>./runInstaller</copy>
	```

### Log in to EM Express

[EM Exp for DB 19c](https://phoenix62464.dev1sub1phx.databasede1phx.oraclevcn.com:5501/em)   
[EM Exp for DB 21c](https://phoenix62464.dev1sub1phx.databasede1phx.oraclevcn.com:5500/em)

- User name - *system*
- Password - *Welcome_1*
- Container name - (leave empty)

**Note:** If you forget the database passwors, dig into the [Admin Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/21/admin/index.html) and fish out how to change the password externally.

## Post Installation steps

#### Listeners
- DB 21c - port *1522*
- DB 19c - port *1523*

A. Set the environment variables

B. Connect to SQL command line

C. View the inventory location

D. View Oracle SIDs and Oracle homes in the system

E. View Oracle base locations

----
### A. Set the environment variables

Use any one of the following.

**Shell - csh**
```
<copy>
setenv ORACLE_SID orcl
setenv ORACLE_HOME /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1
</copy>
```

----------- ------- --------------- -------------------------
	setenv ORACLE_SID orcl
	setenv ORACLE_HOME /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1
----------- ------- --------------- -------------------------



**Shell - bash**
```
<copy>
export ORACLE_SID=orcl
export ORACLE_HOME=/scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1
</copy>
```
**Option 1**   
Works from any directory
```
$ <copy>. oraenv</copy>
```
**Option 2**   
Works only from `$ORACLE_HOME/bin`
```
$ <copy>./oraenv</copy>
```

### B. Connect to SQL command line
Using -
- SQL Plus
- SQL cl

**For SQL Plus**   
<ins>Option 1</ins> - Connect as `system` and enter the user name and password.
```
$ <copy>./sqlplus</copy>
```
- Enter user-name: *system*
- Enter password: *Welcome_1*

<ins>Option 2</ins> - Connect as `sysdba` (no password required).
```
$ <copy>./sqlplus / as sysdba</copy>
```
```
SQL*Plus: Release 21.0.0.0.0 - Production on Mon Jan 3 10:21:08 2022
Version 21.3.0.0.0

Copyright (c) 1982, 2021, Oracle.  All rights reserved.


Connected to:
Oracle Database 21c Enterprise Edition Release 21.0.0.0.0 - Production
Version 21.3.0.0.0
```
**For SQL cl**   
Connect as `sysdba` (no password required).
```
$ <copy>./sql / as sysdba</copy>
```
```
SQLcl: Release 21.2 Production on Mon Jan 03 10:19:21 2022

Copyright (c) 1982, 2022, Oracle.  All rights reserved.

Connected to:
Oracle Database 21c Enterprise Edition Release 21.0.0.0.0 - Production
Version 21.3.0.0.0
```

### C. View the inventory location

Using `oraInst.loc`

```
$ <copy>cat /etc/oraInst.loc</copy>

inventory_loc=/scratch/u01/app/oraInventory
```

### D. View Oracle SIDs and Oracle homes in the system

Using `/etc/oratab`

```
$ <copy>cat /etc/oratab</copy>
```
```
# This file is used by ORACLE utilities.  It is created by root.sh
# and updated by either Database Configuration Assistant while creating
# a database or ASM Configuration Assistant while creating ASM instance.

# A colon, ':', is used as the field terminator.  A new line terminates
# the entry.  Lines beginning with a pound sign, '#', are comments.
#
# Entries are of the form:
#   $ORACLE_SID:$ORACLE_HOME:<N|Y>:
#
# The first and second fields are the system identifier and home
# directory of the database respectively.  The third field indicates
# to the dbstart utility that the database should , "Y", or should not,
# "N", be brought up at system boot time.
#
# Multiple entries with the same $ORACLE_SID are not allowed.
#
#
orcl:/scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1:N
orcl19c:/scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/19.0.0/dbhome_02:N
orclmm:/scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_manisha01:N

```

Using `oraInventory`

1. Go to this location.

	```
	$ <copy>cd /scratch/u01/app/oraInventory/ContentsXML</copy>
	```

1. View the contents of `inventory.xml`.

	```
	$ <copy>cat inventory.xml</copy>
	```

Using `/opt`

1. Go to this location.

	```
	$ <copy>cd /opt/ORCLfmap/prot1_64/etc</copy>
	```

1. View the contents of `filemap.ora`.

	```
	$ <copy>cat filemap.ora</copy>
	```
	```
	###############################################################################
	#                                                                             #
	# This is the configuration file that describes all the mapping libraries     #
	# available.                                                                  #
	#                                                                             #
	# The following row needs to be created for each library:                     #
	# lib={vendor name}: {mapping library path}                                   #
	#                                                                             #
	# Note that the ordering of the libraries in this file is extremely           #
	# important. The libraries are queried based on their order in the            #
	# configuration file.                                                         #
	#                                                                             #
	# Oracle provides a mapping library for EMC Symmetrix arrays. This library    #
	# (LIBMAPSYM.SO) uses the SYMAPI and SYMLVM EMC libraries.                    #
	#                                                                             #
	# UNCOMMENT THE ROW CORRESPONDING TO THAT LIBRARY ONLY IF THE SYM LIBRARIES   #
	# ARE AVAILABLE ON SOLARIS.                                                   #
	###############################################################################

	## The next row needs to be commented out only for Solaris on EMC storage
	#lib=Oracle: /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1/lib/%s_mapsym%

	## The next row can be comented out on ALL UNIX PLATFORMS if no other
	## libraries exist
	#lib=Oracle: /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1/lib/%s_mapdummy%
	```

### E. View Oracle base locations

1. Go to the `install` directory. 
	```
	$ <copy>cd /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1/install</copy>
	```
1. View the contents of the `orabasetab` file.

	```
	$ <copy>cat orabasetab</copy>
	```
	```
	#orabasetab file is used to track Oracle Home associated with Oracle Base
	/scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1:/scratch/u01/app/mgarodia:OraDB21Home1:Y:
	```

	Base location for Oracle Database 
	```
	$ /scratch/u01/app/mgarodia
	```
	Contents of Oracle base 

	```
	$ ls 

	$ admin  audit  cfgtoollogs  dbs  diag  fast_recovery_area  homes  oradata  recovery_area
	```
	De-install removes all these folders under the base location.

### Deinstall Oracle Database

1. Go to the `deinstall` folder.

	```
	$ <copy>cd /u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1/deinstall</copy>
	```

1. Run the `deinstall` command.

	```
	$ <copy>./deinstall</copy>
	```


## Troubleshooting

### Create directory under root

**Problem:** In the VM, you can create the folder `/u01` under `/scratch` but not root `/`.   
**Workaround:** Create /u01 as root, change the ownership to oracle, and mode to executable.

1. Change the user to `root`.

	Option 1
	```
	$ <copy>/usr/local/packages/aime/install/run_as_root "bash"</copy>
	```
	Or, use these: 
	- `sudo su -`
	- `sudo -i`   
		<if type="hidden">Password: Enter the LDAP/Kerberos password - *Livelabs\*1*</if>

1. Create the folder under root.

	```
	$ <copy>mkdir -p /u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1</copy>
	```
1. Change the ownership to *oracle* (user) for the folder `/u01`.

	```
	$ <copy>chown -R oracle:dba /u01</copy>
	```

1. Change the mod to `777` for `/u01`.

	```
	$ <copy>chmod 777 /u01</copy>
	```

### Graphical display error

**ERROR:** Unable to verify the graphical display setup. This application requires X display. Make sure that xdpyinfo exist under PATH variable.
No protocol specified

Can't connect to X11 window server using ':1' as the value of the DISPLAY variable.

**Resolution:** Copy ~/.Xauthority to the `oracle` folder under `/home`.

```
<copy>cp ~/.Xauthority /home/oracle</copy>
```

Error is reproducible thus:

```
$ export DISPLAY=:0.0
$ ./runInstaller
ERROR: Unable to verify the graphical display setup. This application requires X display. Make sure that xdpyinfo exist under PATH variable.

Can't connect to X11 window server using ':0.0' as the value of the DISPLAY variable.
OP's X server was Hummingbird Exceed. Xming will work as well.
```

The actual solution depends on:
- whether you are su'd to oracle from a different login account.
- whether you are using X11 forwarding.
- the actual port used by X11 forwarding, which could be 6010 or a different port.
- If you logged in and then su'd to oracle, then copy ~/.Xauthority to the oracle account.
- If you are using X11 forwarding and the forwarding port is 6010, then DISPLAY=localhost:10.0 is correct.
- If you are not using X11 forwarding, and if port 6000 on your PC is reachable from the oracle server, then export DISPLAY=your.pc.ip.address:0.0 is correct.

1. Install xterm and use xterm to test X windows.
1. Install xdpyinfo.

### xdpyinfo Errors

The xdpyinfo program must be installed.

1. Install `xdpyinfo`.

	```
	$ <copy>yum install xorg-x11-utils-<version-number></copy>
	```

1. If already installed, check whether the `oracle` user has execute privileges.

	```
	<copy>
	cd /usr/bin
	ls -al | grep xdpyinfo
	</copy>
	```
	Result: The oracle user has execute privileges
	```
	-rwxr-xr-x   1 root root      38112 Feb 23  2015 xdpyinfo
	```

1. If the `oracle` user does not have executable privileges, log in as root and execute this command.

	```
	$ <copy>xhost +SI:localuser:oracle</copy>
	```
	Result: 
	```
	localuser:oracle being added to access control list
	```

Refer [Installation Guide - xdpyinfo Errors](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E89497_01/html/rpm_80_installation/GUID-842C3883-9BC1-4D37-82C1-9E7F24628AA7.htm).

Commit message:

Updated readme and install-db lab

common/mg-library/procedures/install-db-goldimage/install-db-goldimage.md, after:

# Oracle Database 21c Gold Image

## Introduction

This lab covers:
- Details of the prerequisites and the environment. 
- Steps on how to install Oracle Database 21c gold image on VM. 

## VM access and environment details

Request account access

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>for Uno VM</th>
            <th>for OCI VM</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td rowspan=4>LDAP DSEE and PDIT NIS unix/linux</td>
            <td row=2>LDAP DSEE and PDIT NIS unix/linux <br>- <b>Login shell:</b> <i>bash</i> or <i>csh</i> <br>- <b>Env or LOB:</b> <i>system LOB (gid=10)</i></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>Kerberos [ADE_Admin] <br>- <b>LOB:</b> DEV</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

<!--
| for Uno VM | for OCI VM |
|------------|------------|
| LDAP DSEE and PDIT NIS unix/linux | LDAP DSEE and PDIT NIS unix/linux <br>Login shell: bash or csh <br> Env or LOB: system LOB (gid=10) |
|                                     | Kerberos [ADE_Admin] |
-->

<ins>Request type</ins>: Select *Application* instance. Entitlements not required.

![Request access](/images/ldap-kerberos-access.png)

### Internal Test Environment

- Host user name: *sso* or *mgarodia*
<if type="hidden">
- TigerVNC pwd: *welcome1*
- LDAP/Kerberos pwd: *Livelabs\*1*
</if>

| VM hostname                                             | Description                           |
|---------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------  |
| phoenix62464.dev1sub1phx.databasede1phx.oraclevcn.com   | OCI machine <br>IP: `100.104.88.84`   |
| slc10wsw.us.oracle.com:2                                | Uno machine <br>User ID: `1477205`    |
|<if type="hidden">phoenix62465.dev1sub1phx.databasede1phx.oraclevcn.com:1 | Suresh Mohan's VM <br>pwd: *welcome1* </if>|
| den03ckl.us.oracle.com:1                                | Temp machine from Subbu <br> cuser:welcome <br>root:Welcome123 |


### Configure VNC

Go to [MyDesktop applications](https://mydesktop.oraclecorp.com/myd_sso/apps.main) and install *PuTTY*, if not already installed. 

**Open PuTTY**

1. In the **PuTTY Configuration** window, enter the following details.

	Host Name (or IP address): Enter the domain (host) name *oracle_uid@slc10wsw.us.oracle.com*   
	login as: <i>GUID</i> [*mgarodia*]   
	Password: <i>pwd</i> <if type="hidden">[*Livelabs\*1*]</if>

	Save the session for future logins.   

1. Set the VNC password. 

	```
	$ <copy>vncpasswd</copy>
	```

1. Start the VNC server.   
	**Note:** Run this command only if the vnc server has stopped or after a system reboot. If the VNC server is already running, then this command <ins>assigns a new incremental port number</ins> to the instance. 

	```
	$ <copy>vncserver</copy>
	```

	```
	perl: warning: Setting locale failed.
	perl: warning: Please check that your locale settings:
		LANGUAGE = (unset),
		LC_ALL = (unset),
		LC_CTYPE = "UTF-8",
		LANG = "en_US.UTF-8"
		are supported and installed on your system.
	perl: warning: Falling back to the standard locale ("C").
	You will require a password to access your desktops.
	```
	
	To stop vncserver - 
	```
	vncserver -kill :x
	```
	where, `x` is the server session (port) number. Refer the [vncserver options](https://linux.die.net/man/1/vncserver) page.
	
1. Enter password to VNC. 

	```
	Password: <Enter password<if type="hidden">- welcome1</if>>
	Verify: <Enter password again<if type="hidden">- welcome1</if>>
	```

1. Enter **n** here.   
	Do not use a view-only password.

	```
	Would you like to enter a view-only password (y/n)? n
	A view-only password is not used

	New 'phoenix62464:1 (mgarodia)' desktop is phoenix62464:1 <-- your port number
	Creating default startup script /home/mgarodia/.vnc/xstartup
	Creating default config /home/mgarodia/.vnc/config
	Starting applications specified in /home/mgarodia/.vnc/xstartup
	Log file is /home/mgarodia/.vnc/phoenix62464:1.log
	```

	Note the (instance) port number assigned; the default is *1*. 
	
1. Open TigerVNC and enter the host name and port number `<hostname>:<port_number>` to connect to the VM.

	**Example 1**
	```
	<copy>phoenix62464.dev1sub1phx.databasede1phx.oraclevcn.com:1</copy>
	```
	<if type="hidden">
	**Example 2**
	```
	<copy>slc10wsw.us.oracle.com:2</copy>
	```
	</if>

## Pre-installation setup

DB install are available as gold images.

1. Visit [DB shiphome gold image annoucements](https://confluence.oraclecorp.com/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?spaceKey=DBTEST&title=Database+Shiphome+Announcement+Home) and look for [21c Linux64](https://confluence.oraclecorp.com/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=2248170665).

1. Under **Shiphome Location**, check <ins>Database Goldimage</ins>. 

	## Database Goldimage

	| Select <i>any</i> server      | Link      |
	|:------------------------------|-----------|
	| SLC - prod                    | [/net/slcnas563.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/210727.PRODUCTION](/net/slcnas563.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/210727.PRODUCTION) <br>File - `LINUX.X64_213000_db_home.zip`       |
	| ADC - prod                    | [/net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/210727.PRODUCTION](/net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/210727.PRODUCTION) <br>File - `LINUX.X64_213000_db_home.zip`       |
	| <mark>ADC</mark> - **latest** |[/net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/LATEST/goldimage](/net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/LATEST/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                        |
	| ADC - 210608                  |[/net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/RC1-210608/goldimage](/net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/RC1-210608/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                     |
	| SaltLake - **latest**         | [/net/slcnas563.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/LATEST/goldimage](/net/slcnas563.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/LATEST/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                        |
	| SaltLake - 210608             | [/net/slcnas563.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/RC1-210608/goldimage](/net/slcnas563.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/RC1-210608/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                     |
	| HQ - **latest**               | [/net/rwsnas436.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0//LATEST/goldimage](/net/rwsnas436.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0//LATEST/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                        |
	| HQ - 210608                   | [/net/rwsnas436.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/RC1-210608/goldimage](/net/rwsnas436.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/RC1-210608/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                     |
	| <mark>ade_autofs</mark> - **new**<br><i>from Prakash J </i> | [/ade\_autofs/dd223\_db/RDBMS/21.3.0.0.0/LINUX.X64/210727.XE/install/shiphome/goldimage](/ade_autofs/dd223_db/RDBMS/21.3.0.0.0/LINUX.X64/210727.XE/install/shiphome/goldimage) <br>File - `db_home.zip`                                            |
	| ade_autofs - old              | [/ade\_autofs/dd77\_db/RDBMS/21.3.0.0.0/LINUX.X64/210727/install/shiphome/goldimage](/ade_autofs/dd77_db/RDBMS/21.3.0.0.0/LINUX.X64/210727/install/shiphome/goldimage) |

1. Open a terminal window and create the folder structure for `$ORACLE_HOME`.

	```
	$ <copy>mkdir -p /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1</copy>
	```

	> **Caution:** Do all installations only under */scratch*, never in `ade` or any other directory. 

1. Go to the location where the *gold image* exists.   
	This example uses <ins>the ADC server</ins>.

	```
	$ <copy>cd /net/adcnas481.us.oracle.com/export/pd_shiphomes/shiphomes/rdbms/linux.x64/21c/21.3.0.0.0/LATEST/goldimage</copy>
	```

1. Unzip the installer into the Oracle home folder.   

	**Syntax**

	```
	$ unzip -q <file_name> -d <full_path>
	```
	> where,   
	`-q` for quiet operation (run in background)   
	`-d` to create the directory stucture


	**Example 1** - for ADC server
	
	```
	$ <copy>unzip -q db_home.zip -d /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1</copy>
	```

	**Example 2** - for prod

	```
	$ <copy>unzip -q LINUX.X64_213000_db_home.zip -d /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1</copy>
	```

	Get an *extra copy of the installer quickly* on your local system.

	```
	$ <copy>unzip -q /ade_autofs/dd223_db/RDBMS/21.3.0.0.0/LINUX.X64/210727.XE/install/shiphome/goldimage/db_home.zip -d /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_unzip02</copy>
	```

1. Go to Oracle home.
	```
	$ <copy>cd /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1</copy>
	```

1. Run the Oracle Database Setup Wizard (Installer).

	```
	$ <copy>./runInstaller</copy>
	```

### Log in to EM Express

[EM Exp for DB 19c](https://phoenix62464.dev1sub1phx.databasede1phx.oraclevcn.com:5501/em)   
[EM Exp for DB 21c](https://phoenix62464.dev1sub1phx.databasede1phx.oraclevcn.com:5500/em)

- User name - *system*
- Password - Enter the password <if type="hidden">*Welcome_1*</if>
- Container name - (leave empty)

**Note:** If you forget the database passwors, dig into the [Admin Guide](https://docs.oracle.com/en/database/oracle/oracle-database/21/admin/index.html) and fish out how to change the password externally.

## Post Installation steps

#### Listeners
- DB 21c - port *1522*
- DB 19c - port *1523*

A. Set the environment variables

B. Connect to SQL command line

C. View the inventory location

D. View Oracle SIDs and Oracle homes in the system

E. View Oracle base locations

----
### A. Set the environment variables

Use any one of the following.

**Shell - csh**
```
<copy>
setenv ORACLE_SID orcl
setenv ORACLE_HOME /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1
</copy>
```

----------- ------- --------------- -------------------------
	setenv ORACLE_SID orcl
	setenv ORACLE_HOME /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1
----------- ------- --------------- -------------------------



**Shell - bash**
```
<copy>
export ORACLE_SID=orcl
export ORACLE_HOME=/scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1
</copy>
```
**Option 1**   
Works from any directory
```
$ <copy>. oraenv</copy>
```
**Option 2**   
Works only from `$ORACLE_HOME/bin`
```
$ <copy>./oraenv</copy>
```

### B. Connect to SQL command line
Using -
- SQL Plus
- SQL cl

**For SQL Plus**   
<ins>Option 1</ins> - Connect as `system` and enter the user name and password.
```
$ <copy>./sqlplus</copy>
```
- Enter user-name: *system*
- Enter password: *Welcome_1*

<ins>Option 2</ins> - Connect as `sysdba` (no password required).
```
$ <copy>./sqlplus / as sysdba</copy>
```
```
SQL*Plus: Release 21.0.0.0.0 - Production on Mon Jan 3 10:21:08 2022
Version 21.3.0.0.0

Copyright (c) 1982, 2021, Oracle.  All rights reserved.


Connected to:
Oracle Database 21c Enterprise Edition Release 21.0.0.0.0 - Production
Version 21.3.0.0.0
```
**For SQL cl**   
Connect as `sysdba` (no password required).
```
$ <copy>./sql / as sysdba</copy>
```
```
SQLcl: Release 21.2 Production on Mon Jan 03 10:19:21 2022

Copyright (c) 1982, 2022, Oracle.  All rights reserved.

Connected to:
Oracle Database 21c Enterprise Edition Release 21.0.0.0.0 - Production
Version 21.3.0.0.0
```

### C. View the inventory location

Using `oraInst.loc`

```
$ <copy>cat /etc/oraInst.loc</copy>

inventory_loc=/scratch/u01/app/oraInventory
```

### D. View Oracle SIDs and Oracle homes in the system

Using `/etc/oratab`

```
$ <copy>cat /etc/oratab</copy>
```
```
# This file is used by ORACLE utilities.  It is created by root.sh
# and updated by either Database Configuration Assistant while creating
# a database or ASM Configuration Assistant while creating ASM instance.

# A colon, ':', is used as the field terminator.  A new line terminates
# the entry.  Lines beginning with a pound sign, '#', are comments.
#
# Entries are of the form:
#   $ORACLE_SID:$ORACLE_HOME:<N|Y>:
#
# The first and second fields are the system identifier and home
# directory of the database respectively.  The third field indicates
# to the dbstart utility that the database should , "Y", or should not,
# "N", be brought up at system boot time.
#
# Multiple entries with the same $ORACLE_SID are not allowed.
#
#
orcl:/scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1:N
orcl19c:/scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/19.0.0/dbhome_02:N
orclmm:/scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_manisha01:N

```

Using `oraInventory`

1. Go to this location.

	```
	$ <copy>cd /scratch/u01/app/oraInventory/ContentsXML</copy>
	```

1. View the contents of `inventory.xml`.

	```
	$ <copy>cat inventory.xml</copy>
	```

Using `/opt`

1. Go to this location.

	```
	$ <copy>cd /opt/ORCLfmap/prot1_64/etc</copy>
	```

1. View the contents of `filemap.ora`.

	```
	$ <copy>cat filemap.ora</copy>
	```
	```
	###############################################################################
	#                                                                             #
	# This is the configuration file that describes all the mapping libraries     #
	# available.                                                                  #
	#                                                                             #
	# The following row needs to be created for each library:                     #
	# lib={vendor name}: {mapping library path}                                   #
	#                                                                             #
	# Note that the ordering of the libraries in this file is extremely           #
	# important. The libraries are queried based on their order in the            #
	# configuration file.                                                         #
	#                                                                             #
	# Oracle provides a mapping library for EMC Symmetrix arrays. This library    #
	# (LIBMAPSYM.SO) uses the SYMAPI and SYMLVM EMC libraries.                    #
	#                                                                             #
	# UNCOMMENT THE ROW CORRESPONDING TO THAT LIBRARY ONLY IF THE SYM LIBRARIES   #
	# ARE AVAILABLE ON SOLARIS.                                                   #
	###############################################################################

	## The next row needs to be commented out only for Solaris on EMC storage
	#lib=Oracle: /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1/lib/%s_mapsym%

	## The next row can be comented out on ALL UNIX PLATFORMS if no other
	## libraries exist
	#lib=Oracle: /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1/lib/%s_mapdummy%
	```

### E. View Oracle base locations

1. Go to the `install` directory. 
	```
	$ <copy>cd /scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1/install</copy>
	```
1. View the contents of the `orabasetab` file.

	```
	$ <copy>cat orabasetab</copy>
	```
	```
	#orabasetab file is used to track Oracle Home associated with Oracle Base
	/scratch/u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1:/scratch/u01/app/mgarodia:OraDB21Home1:Y:
	```

	Base location for Oracle Database 
	```
	$ /scratch/u01/app/mgarodia
	```
	Contents of Oracle base 

	```
	$ ls 

	$ admin  audit  cfgtoollogs  dbs  diag  fast_recovery_area  homes  oradata  recovery_area
	```
	De-install removes all these folders under the base location.

### Deinstall Oracle Database

1. Go to the `deinstall` folder.

	```
	$ <copy>cd /u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1/deinstall</copy>
	```

1. Run the `deinstall` command.

	```
	$ <copy>./deinstall</copy>
	```


## Troubleshoot

### Create directory under root

**Problem:** In the VM, you can create the folder `/u01` under `/scratch` but not root `/`.   
**Workaround:** Create /u01 as root, change the ownership to oracle, and mode to executable.

1. Change the user to `root`.

	Option 1
	```
	$ <copy>/usr/local/packages/aime/install/run_as_root "bash"</copy>
	```
	Or, use these: 
	- `sudo su -`
	- `sudo -i`   
		<if type="hidden">Password: Enter the LDAP/Kerberos password - *Livelabs\*1*</if>

1. Create the folder under root.

	```
	$ <copy>mkdir -p /u01/app/oracle/product/21.0.0/dbhome_1</copy>
	```
1. Change the ownership to *oracle* (user) for the folder `/u01`.

	```
	$ <copy>chown -R oracle:dba /u01</copy>
	```

1. Change the mod to `777` for `/u01`.

	```
	$ <copy>chmod 777 /u01</copy>
	```

### Graphical display error

**ERROR:** Unable to verify the graphical display setup. This application requires X display. Make sure that xdpyinfo exist under PATH variable.
No protocol specified

Can't connect to X11 window server using ':1' as the value of the DISPLAY variable.

**Solution:** Copy ~/.Xauthority to the `oracle` folder under `/home`.

```
<copy>cp ~/.Xauthority /home/oracle</copy>
```

Error is reproducible thus:

```
$ export DISPLAY=:0.0
$ ./runInstaller
ERROR: Unable to verify the graphical display setup. This application requires X display. Make sure that xdpyinfo exist under PATH variable.

Can't connect to X11 window server using ':0.0' as the value of the DISPLAY variable.
OP's X server was Hummingbird Exceed. Xming will work as well.
```

The actual solution depends on:
- whether you are su'd to oracle from a different login account.
- whether you are using X11 forwarding.
- the actual port used by X11 forwarding, which could be 6010 or a different port.
- If you logged in and then su'd to oracle, then copy ~/.Xauthority to the oracle account.
- If you are using X11 forwarding and the forwarding port is 6010, then DISPLAY=localhost:10.0 is correct.
- If you are not using X11 forwarding, and if port 6000 on your PC is reachable from the oracle server, then export DISPLAY=your.pc.ip.address:0.0 is correct.

1. Install xterm and use xterm to test X windows.
1. Install xdpyinfo.

### xdpyinfo Errors

The xdpyinfo program must be installed.

1. Install `xdpyinfo`.

	```
	$ <copy>yum install xorg-x11-utils-<version-number></copy>
	```

1. If already installed, check whether the `oracle` user has execute privileges.

	```
	<copy>
	cd /usr/bin
	ls -al | grep xdpyinfo
	</copy>
	```
	Result: The oracle user has execute privileges
	```
	-rwxr-xr-x   1 root root      38112 Feb 23  2015 xdpyinfo
	```

1. If the `oracle` user does not have executable privileges, log in as root and execute this command.

	```
	$ <copy>xhost +SI:localuser:oracle</copy>
	```
	Result: 
	```
	localuser:oracle being added to access control list
	```

Refer [Installation Guide - xdpyinfo Errors](https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E89497_01/html/rpm_80_installation/GUID-842C3883-9BC1-4D37-82C1-9E7F24628AA7.htm).

## Acknowledgements

 - **Author** - Manish Garodia, Team Database UAD
 - **Last Updated on** - January 5, (Wed) 2022
