common/mg-library/misc-concepts/github-pr.md, before:

# GitHub pull requests

## Commit to master

This lab walks down the history lane of pull and merge requests for DBA Essentials workshops committed to OLL master on Github.

## WS11 (*8341*)

- WS11 pull requests

	----
	## Merge request #*4510* - Feb 15, 2022

	Submitted PR for WS11 (draft copy) from my fork on Github on *Tue Feb 15*. Approved on **Feb 16**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*8341*) Modified as per QA checklist</ins>

	Hello,

	Modified the following as per self-QA. 

	Introduction lab:
	- Modified the title
	- Updated the note in prerequisites

	deinstall-db:
	- Added the copy tag
	- Removed the expanable option for Output, changed to normal text

	- Updated the markdown tag in notes
	- Updated the date in acknowledments
	- Modified the workshop title in the manifests
	- Added 'get started' to livelabs manifest

	Github pages from my repo is failing for many weeks.  

	Please approve the PR so that QA verification can be completed. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*4404* - Jan 21, 2022

	Submitted PR for WS11 (draft copy) from my fork on Github on *Fri Jan 21*. Approved on **Jan 21**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*#8341*) Created New Workshop Remove Oracle Database 21c</ins>

	Hello,

	Developed a new workshop on *Remove Oracle Database 21c From Your Host System*. The workshop (#8341) is approved in LWMS. 

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

## WS8 (*9281*)

- WS8 pull requests

	----
	## Merge request #*4473* - Feb 9, 2022

	Submitted PR for WS8 (draft copy) from Suresh M's fork on Github on *Tue Feb 8*. Waiting for approval. Approved on ...

	**Sub**: *ID#9281* - New livelabs workshop

	Hi @anooshapilli,

	We are not production-ready yet. This is the first draft of the workshop being uploaded to the learning library. Self QA will be the next step.

	For now, we need an approval of the PR so that the workshop gets placed on the master.

	Thanks, Manish

## WS3 (*8321*)

- WS3 pull requests

	----
	## Merge request #*4404* - Jan 21, 2022

	Submitted PR for WS3 (draft copy) from my fork on Github on *Fri Jan 21*. Approved on **Jan 22**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*#8321*) Updated the task set the environment</ins>

	Hello,
	Updated the task set the environment in 2 labs and other minor changes.   

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*4331* - Dec 28, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS3 (draft copy) from my fork on Github on *Tue Dec 28*. Approved on **Jan 4**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID #8321*) Created New Workshop Configure Network Environment</ins>

	Hello,  
	Developed a new workshop on *Configure Network Environment for Oracle Database 21c*. The workshop (#8321) is approved in LWMS.   

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

## WS2 (*7141*)

- WS2 pull requests

	----
	## Merge request #*4331* - Dec 22, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS2 from my fork on Github on *Thu Dec 22, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Jan 4**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7141*) Final updates for publishing</ins>

	Hello,

	Updated the labs for the final round of review before publishing. 

	Modified the title for *access-homepage* in the lab and the manifests.   
	Added image alt text to *initialize-environment*.  
	Updated the image tag in all labs with " ".  
	Fixed broken image in *manage-targets*.  
	Updated the steps to set the environment and fixed the indentation issue in *sqlplus-container-details*.  
	Modified the workshop title in the manifests.  

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*4265* - Dec 2, 2021 

	Submitted PR for WS2 from my fork on Github on *Thu Dec 2, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Dec 3**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7141*) Updated the labs from QA review</ins>

	Hello,

	Modified the labs as per feedback from QA review. 

	Updated as per Oracle Style Guide  
	Updated the tasks and added more steps to the labs  
	Added new images and removed unused images  
	Modified few images to display more information  
	Renamed the filenames of some images  
	Updated the help email `livelabs-help-em_us_grp@oracle.com` in the `manifest.json` files  
	Added new names to the contributors for the labs  
	Added closing statement about *what you learned* in all the labs.   
	Other minor changes and enhancements  

	Could I request to approve the PR please. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*4121* - Nov 2, 2021 

	Submitted PR for WS2 from my fork on Github on *Tue Nov 2, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Nov 3**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7141*) Updated the labs from self-review</ins>

	Hello,

	Modified the following as per self-review. 

	In the manage-targets lab:
	- Modified the objectives
	- Added more details and steps to Task 2
	- Modified the steps in Task 3
	- Renamed a few images

	In the access-homepage lab:
	- Moved the note to the prerequisites section
	- Removed the step in Task 1 related to Database Load map

	Other general changes:
	- Removed the if condition from the intro lab
	- Updated *initialize-environment* and added the names of the database instance and the listener for Oracle Database 21c
	- Replaced the screenshots and added new images to the *manage-targets* and *access-homepage* labs
	- Removed the comments tags from *manage-targets* and *access-homepage*, and moved the content to rendered output
	- Also, updated the month to Nov in the *acknowledgements* section across all labs

	Could I request to approve the PR please. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*4090* - Oct 26, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS2 from my fork on Github on *Tue Oct 26, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Oct 26**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7141*) Fixed comments from SME reviews</ins>

	Hello,

	Modified the labs as per review comments from the SMEs. 

	Modified the manifests and changed the workshop title to *DBA Essentials - Oracle EM Database Administation (DBA)*  
	Modified the lab title *Managed targets - Oracle Database and Listener*  
	Modified image filenames and replaced the underscore with dashes  
	Replaced the screenshots in EMCC with the latest GUI  
	Removed the screenshots no longer applicable  
	Added new screenshots in *Managed targets* and *Access homepage*  
	Modified the lab *initialize environment* and removed the sections not applicable  
	Updated the prerequisites for all labs  
	Updated the login details for EMCC, added the hostname and the login credentials  
	Modified the content in the lab *Manage targets* and *access homepage*  
	Fixed indentation issue in the lab *SQL plus container details*.  
	Removed the if condition from the introduction  
	Other minor changes and enhancements.  

	Could I request to approve the PR please. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3948* - Oct 10, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS2 (draft copy) from my fork on Github on *Sun Oct 10*. Approved on **Oct 11**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7141*) Created New Workshop EM - Oracle DBA</ins>

	Hello,

	Developed a new workshop on *EM - Oracle Database Administration (DBA)*. The workshop (#7141) is approved in LWMS. 

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

## WS1 (*7041*)

- WS1 pull requests

	----
	## Merge request #*3707* - Sep 09, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS1 from my fork on Github on *Sat Sep 9, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Sep 09**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7041*) Added Lab #Number: title in the manifest.json</ins>

	Hello,

	Fixed the comment from Anoosha on Self QA for the workshop. 

	Modified the `manifest.json` file for freetier, livelabs, and desktop versions.  
	Added Lab #Number : title for all labs from the lab *Prepare Setup* onwards in the `manifest.json` files.

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3688* - Sep 05, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS1 from my fork on Github on *Sat Sep 5, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Sep 7**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7041*) Fixed comments from Livelabs team on Self QA</ins>

	Hello,

	Modified the labs as per review comments from the Livelabs team on Self QA. 

	Moved the workshop one folder up. New location: `/data-management-library/database/21c/dba-essentials/`   
	Changed the folder names from `freetier-install-db`, `livelabs-install-db`, `desktop-install-db` back to `freetier`, `livelabs`, `desktop`  
	Moved the workshops folder under the parent folder `install-db`  
	Merged lab 4 and 5 into a single lab *Install Oracle Database*. Removed the if condition.  
	Install Oracle Database desktop class and Server class are now options.  
	Merged lab 6 and 7 into a single lab *Create Container Database*. Removed the if condition.  
	Fixed the title issue in the manifests  
	Removed the assumptions section and converted them into tasks under the fold  
	Removed the link syntax for *proceed to the next lab*, changed to bold  
	Changed the nested headings to regular texts  
	Added a congrats line at the end of the workshop  
	Added prerequisites for freetier and paid accounts to all content labs  
	Moved the blog to Learn more in the Introduction  
	Moved the Objectives before Prerequisites for all content labs  
	Moved the headings in the Introduction under *Appendix*  
	Modified the objectives in the Introduction  
	Converted second level number A,B,C into steps  
	Remove the designation of contributors from the content labs  
	Other minor changes.  

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3662* - Sep 01, 2021

	Fixed conflicts and submitted a merge request on *Mon Sep 01, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Sep 01**.

	**Sub**: <ins>Workshop (*ID# 7041*) Fixed conflicts and removed the include files</ins>

	Hello,

	Modified the lab as suggested. 

	Fixed the conflicts in these files: `freetier-install-db`/`manifest.json` and `prepare-setup.md`  
	Removed the common files  
	Removed the include function from all occurrences  
	Other minor changes

	Besides, I performed Self QA for the workshop and ran through the lint checker on all labs again.

	Request for approval please. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3662* - Aug 30, 2021 

	Submitted PR for WS1 from my fork on Github on *Mon Aug 30, 2021*. Not Approved.

	**Sub**: <ins>Workshop (*ID# 7041*) Re-arranged folder structure and other changes as suggested in Office Hours</ins>

	Hello,

	I have modified the lab as discussed in the Office Hours. 

	Following are the modifications - 

	Moved *prepare-setup* inside the install-db folder  
	Removed the common file and inserted the note inside Introduction  
	Changed the folder name from main to desktop  
	Removed *initialize-environment* from desktop  
	Moved the introduction lab first followed by *get started* in all manifests  
	Changed the heading 1 of Introduction to *Oracle Database 21c Installation*  
	Added if condition to Introduction to exclude sections from the parent workshop.  
	Changed the folder names from `freetier`, `livelabs`, `desktop` to `freetier-install-db`, `livelabs-install-db`, `desktop-install-db`

	Besides, I performed Self QA for the workshop and ran through the lint checker on all labs again.

	Request for approval please.  Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3642* - Aug 26, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS1 from my fork on Github on *Mon Aug 26, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Aug 26**.

	**Sub**: <ins>Workshop (*ID# 7041*) Modified as per Self QA and lint checker along with other changes</ins>

	Hello,

	I performed Self QA and ran through the lint checker on the workshop.

	Following are the modifications - 

	Removed the gerund and modified the title to *Install Oracle Database 21c on OCI Compute*.  
	Added these to the Introduction:
	  - Estimated workshop time = 2 hours
	  - Note on always free accounts. Used a new file to include this note.   

	Changed the folder names from `common-files` to `files` and from `common-images` to `images`.  
	Modified the manifest files as per the above changes.  
	Added the correct version of *Need Help* in the manifests for `LiveLabs` and `Main`.  
	Removed the redundant file on *See an issue*.  
	Minor changes to the lab *Create Container Database (Advanced Mode)*

	Request for approval please.  Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3604* - Aug 23, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS1 from my fork on Github on *Mon Aug 23, 2021*. Approved on **Aug 23**.

	**Sub**: <ins>Workshop ID: *7041* Fixed indentation issue and broken images, used the if condition</ins>

	Hello,

	I have done the following changes to my workshop. 

	Used the include option for single-sourcing of content common across the labs.   
	Fixed broken images in *Install Database (Server Class)*. Renamed the filename for the images.  
	Fixed indentation issue at multiple places across all labs.  
	Replaced the correct image for running root scripts in *Install Desktop Class* and *Install Server Class*.  
	Removed the Compatible Initialization parameter from *Install Server Class* and *DBCA Advanced Mode*.  
	Merged the markdown files `installer-desktop` and `installer-server` into a single file *installer-desktop-server*  
	Merged the markdown files `dbca-typical` and `dbca-advanced` into a single file *dbca-typical-advanced*.  
	Used the *if* and *type* options to conditionalize the content.  
	Updated the manifest files to reflect the new merged markdown files and the *include* files.  

	Request for approval please. Thank you

	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3575* - Aug 16, 2021 

	Submitted PR for WS1 (draft copy) from my fork on Github on *Mon Aug 16, 2021*. Approved on **Aug 17**.

	**Sub**: <ins>Created Oracle Database 21c Installation Workshop (*ID# 7041*)</ins>

	Hello,

	I have developed a new workshop on 'Installing Oracle Database 21c on OCI Compute'. The workshop (#7041) is approved in LWMS. Please approve the pull request.

	~Thanks, MG

## Acknowledgements

 - **Author** - Manish Garodia, Team Database UAD
 - **Last Updated on** - February 19, (Sat) 2022
 - **Questions/Feedback?** - Blame [manish.garodia@oracle.com](./../../intro/files/email.md)

Commit message:

New image fork, clone, updated github-pr, manifests
Created a new image to explain the relation between fork, clone, and OLL
master
New PR 4558 for WS3 final changes for prod
manifests for start-here and sandbox: updated publish date and
description

common/mg-library/misc-concepts/github-pr.md, after:

# GitHub pull requests

## Commit to master

This lab walks down the history lane of pull and merge requests for DBA Essentials workshops committed to OLL master on Github.

## WS11 (*8341*)

- WS11 pull requests

	----
	## Merge request #*4510* - Feb 15, 2022

	Submitted PR for WS11 (draft copy) from my fork on Github on *Tue Feb 15*. Approved on **Feb 16**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*8341*) Modified as per QA checklist</ins>

	Hello,

	Modified the following as per self-QA. 

	Introduction lab:
	- Modified the title
	- Updated the note in prerequisites

	deinstall-db:
	- Added the copy tag
	- Removed the expanable option for Output, changed to normal text

	- Updated the markdown tag in notes
	- Updated the date in acknowledments
	- Modified the workshop title in the manifests
	- Added 'get started' to livelabs manifest

	Github pages from my repo is failing for many weeks.  

	Please approve the PR so that QA verification can be completed. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*4404* - Jan 21, 2022

	Submitted PR for WS11 (draft copy) from my fork on Github on *Fri Jan 21*. Approved on **Jan 21**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*#8341*) Created New Workshop Remove Oracle Database 21c</ins>

	Hello,

	Developed a new workshop on *Remove Oracle Database 21c From Your Host System*. The workshop (#8341) is approved in LWMS. 

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

## WS8 (*9281*)

- WS8 pull requests

	----
	## Merge request #*4473* - Feb 9, 2022

	Submitted PR for WS8 (draft copy) from Suresh M's fork on Github on *Tue Feb 8*. Waiting for approval. Approved on ...

	**Sub**: *ID#9281* - New livelabs workshop

	Hi @anooshapilli,

	We are not production-ready yet. This is the first draft of the workshop being uploaded to the learning library. Self QA will be the next step.

	For now, we need an approval of the PR so that the workshop gets placed on the master.

	Thanks, Manish

## WS3 (*8321*)

- WS3 pull requests

	----
	## Merge request #*4558* - Feb 20, 2022

	Submitted PR for WS3 from my fork on Github on *Sun Feb 20*. Approved on **Feb 21**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*#8321*) Final changes for production as per Office hours</ins>

	Hello,

	The workshop is production-ready. Final changes as agreed in the Office hours.    

	Changes: 
	- Updated the note tag
	- All occurrences of the database name throughout the workshop changed from *orcl.us.oracle.com* to *CDB1*
	- Updated the code blocks as per the custom image to reflect the new database name
	- Updated the Oracle home location as per the custom image
	- Updated the acknowledgement date

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*4404* - Jan 21, 2022

	Submitted PR for WS3 (draft copy) from my fork on Github on *Fri Jan 21*. Approved on **Jan 22**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*#8321*) Updated the task set the environment</ins>

	Hello,
	Updated the task set the environment in 2 labs and other minor changes.   

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*4331* - Dec 28, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS3 (draft copy) from my fork on Github on *Tue Dec 28*. Approved on **Jan 4**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID #8321*) Created New Workshop Configure Network Environment</ins>

	Hello,  
	Developed a new workshop on *Configure Network Environment for Oracle Database 21c*. The workshop (#8321) is approved in LWMS.   

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

## WS2 (*7141*)

- WS2 pull requests

	----
	## Merge request #*4331* - Dec 22, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS2 from my fork on Github on *Thu Dec 22, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Jan 4**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7141*) Final updates for publishing</ins>

	Hello,

	Updated the labs for the final round of review before publishing. 

	Modified the title for *access-homepage* in the lab and the manifests.   
	Added image alt text to *initialize-environment*.  
	Updated the image tag in all labs with " ".  
	Fixed broken image in *manage-targets*.  
	Updated the steps to set the environment and fixed the indentation issue in *sqlplus-container-details*.  
	Modified the workshop title in the manifests.  

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*4265* - Dec 2, 2021 

	Submitted PR for WS2 from my fork on Github on *Thu Dec 2, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Dec 3**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7141*) Updated the labs from QA review</ins>

	Hello,

	Modified the labs as per feedback from QA review. 

	Updated as per Oracle Style Guide  
	Updated the tasks and added more steps to the labs  
	Added new images and removed unused images  
	Modified few images to display more information  
	Renamed the filenames of some images  
	Updated the help email `livelabs-help-em_us_grp@oracle.com` in the `manifest.json` files  
	Added new names to the contributors for the labs  
	Added closing statement about *what you learned* in all the labs.   
	Other minor changes and enhancements  

	Could I request to approve the PR please. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*4121* - Nov 2, 2021 

	Submitted PR for WS2 from my fork on Github on *Tue Nov 2, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Nov 3**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7141*) Updated the labs from self-review</ins>

	Hello,

	Modified the following as per self-review. 

	In the manage-targets lab:
	- Modified the objectives
	- Added more details and steps to Task 2
	- Modified the steps in Task 3
	- Renamed a few images

	In the access-homepage lab:
	- Moved the note to the prerequisites section
	- Removed the step in Task 1 related to Database Load map

	Other general changes:
	- Removed the if condition from the intro lab
	- Updated *initialize-environment* and added the names of the database instance and the listener for Oracle Database 21c
	- Replaced the screenshots and added new images to the *manage-targets* and *access-homepage* labs
	- Removed the comments tags from *manage-targets* and *access-homepage*, and moved the content to rendered output
	- Also, updated the month to Nov in the *acknowledgements* section across all labs

	Could I request to approve the PR please. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*4090* - Oct 26, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS2 from my fork on Github on *Tue Oct 26, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Oct 26**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7141*) Fixed comments from SME reviews</ins>

	Hello,

	Modified the labs as per review comments from the SMEs. 

	Modified the manifests and changed the workshop title to *DBA Essentials - Oracle EM Database Administation (DBA)*  
	Modified the lab title *Managed targets - Oracle Database and Listener*  
	Modified image filenames and replaced the underscore with dashes  
	Replaced the screenshots in EMCC with the latest GUI  
	Removed the screenshots no longer applicable  
	Added new screenshots in *Managed targets* and *Access homepage*  
	Modified the lab *initialize environment* and removed the sections not applicable  
	Updated the prerequisites for all labs  
	Updated the login details for EMCC, added the hostname and the login credentials  
	Modified the content in the lab *Manage targets* and *access homepage*  
	Fixed indentation issue in the lab *SQL plus container details*.  
	Removed the if condition from the introduction  
	Other minor changes and enhancements.  

	Could I request to approve the PR please. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3948* - Oct 10, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS2 (draft copy) from my fork on Github on *Sun Oct 10*. Approved on **Oct 11**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7141*) Created New Workshop EM - Oracle DBA</ins>

	Hello,

	Developed a new workshop on *EM - Oracle Database Administration (DBA)*. The workshop (#7141) is approved in LWMS. 

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

## WS1 (*7041*)

- WS1 pull requests

	----
	## Merge request #*3707* - Sep 09, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS1 from my fork on Github on *Sat Sep 9, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Sep 09**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7041*) Added Lab #Number: title in the manifest.json</ins>

	Hello,

	Fixed the comment from Anoosha on Self QA for the workshop. 

	Modified the `manifest.json` file for freetier, livelabs, and desktop versions.  
	Added Lab #Number : title for all labs from the lab *Prepare Setup* onwards in the `manifest.json` files.

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3688* - Sep 05, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS1 from my fork on Github on *Sat Sep 5, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Sep 7**.

	**Sub**: <ins>(*ID# 7041*) Fixed comments from Livelabs team on Self QA</ins>

	Hello,

	Modified the labs as per review comments from the Livelabs team on Self QA. 

	Moved the workshop one folder up. New location: `/data-management-library/database/21c/dba-essentials/`   
	Changed the folder names from `freetier-install-db`, `livelabs-install-db`, `desktop-install-db` back to `freetier`, `livelabs`, `desktop`  
	Moved the workshops folder under the parent folder `install-db`  
	Merged lab 4 and 5 into a single lab *Install Oracle Database*. Removed the if condition.  
	Install Oracle Database desktop class and Server class are now options.  
	Merged lab 6 and 7 into a single lab *Create Container Database*. Removed the if condition.  
	Fixed the title issue in the manifests  
	Removed the assumptions section and converted them into tasks under the fold  
	Removed the link syntax for *proceed to the next lab*, changed to bold  
	Changed the nested headings to regular texts  
	Added a congrats line at the end of the workshop  
	Added prerequisites for freetier and paid accounts to all content labs  
	Moved the blog to Learn more in the Introduction  
	Moved the Objectives before Prerequisites for all content labs  
	Moved the headings in the Introduction under *Appendix*  
	Modified the objectives in the Introduction  
	Converted second level number A,B,C into steps  
	Remove the designation of contributors from the content labs  
	Other minor changes.  

	Please approve the PR. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3662* - Sep 01, 2021

	Fixed conflicts and submitted a merge request on *Mon Sep 01, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Sep 01**.

	**Sub**: <ins>Workshop (*ID# 7041*) Fixed conflicts and removed the include files</ins>

	Hello,

	Modified the lab as suggested. 

	Fixed the conflicts in these files: `freetier-install-db`/`manifest.json` and `prepare-setup.md`  
	Removed the common files  
	Removed the include function from all occurrences  
	Other minor changes

	Besides, I performed Self QA for the workshop and ran through the lint checker on all labs again.

	Request for approval please. Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3662* - Aug 30, 2021 

	Submitted PR for WS1 from my fork on Github on *Mon Aug 30, 2021*. Not Approved.

	**Sub**: <ins>Workshop (*ID# 7041*) Re-arranged folder structure and other changes as suggested in Office Hours</ins>

	Hello,

	I have modified the lab as discussed in the Office Hours. 

	Following are the modifications - 

	Moved *prepare-setup* inside the install-db folder  
	Removed the common file and inserted the note inside Introduction  
	Changed the folder name from main to desktop  
	Removed *initialize-environment* from desktop  
	Moved the introduction lab first followed by *get started* in all manifests  
	Changed the heading 1 of Introduction to *Oracle Database 21c Installation*  
	Added if condition to Introduction to exclude sections from the parent workshop.  
	Changed the folder names from `freetier`, `livelabs`, `desktop` to `freetier-install-db`, `livelabs-install-db`, `desktop-install-db`

	Besides, I performed Self QA for the workshop and ran through the lint checker on all labs again.

	Request for approval please.  Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3642* - Aug 26, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS1 from my fork on Github on *Mon Aug 26, 2021*. Waiting for approval. Approved on **Aug 26**.

	**Sub**: <ins>Workshop (*ID# 7041*) Modified as per Self QA and lint checker along with other changes</ins>

	Hello,

	I performed Self QA and ran through the lint checker on the workshop.

	Following are the modifications - 

	Removed the gerund and modified the title to *Install Oracle Database 21c on OCI Compute*.  
	Added these to the Introduction:
	  - Estimated workshop time = 2 hours
	  - Note on always free accounts. Used a new file to include this note.   

	Changed the folder names from `common-files` to `files` and from `common-images` to `images`.  
	Modified the manifest files as per the above changes.  
	Added the correct version of *Need Help* in the manifests for `LiveLabs` and `Main`.  
	Removed the redundant file on *See an issue*.  
	Minor changes to the lab *Create Container Database (Advanced Mode)*

	Request for approval please.  Thank you  
	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3604* - Aug 23, 2021

	Submitted PR for WS1 from my fork on Github on *Mon Aug 23, 2021*. Approved on **Aug 23**.

	**Sub**: <ins>Workshop ID: *7041* Fixed indentation issue and broken images, used the if condition</ins>

	Hello,

	I have done the following changes to my workshop. 

	Used the include option for single-sourcing of content common across the labs.   
	Fixed broken images in *Install Database (Server Class)*. Renamed the filename for the images.  
	Fixed indentation issue at multiple places across all labs.  
	Replaced the correct image for running root scripts in *Install Desktop Class* and *Install Server Class*.  
	Removed the Compatible Initialization parameter from *Install Server Class* and *DBCA Advanced Mode*.  
	Merged the markdown files `installer-desktop` and `installer-server` into a single file *installer-desktop-server*  
	Merged the markdown files `dbca-typical` and `dbca-advanced` into a single file *dbca-typical-advanced*.  
	Used the *if* and *type* options to conditionalize the content.  
	Updated the manifest files to reflect the new merged markdown files and the *include* files.  

	Request for approval please. Thank you

	~MG

	----
	## Merge request #*3575* - Aug 16, 2021 

	Submitted PR for WS1 (draft copy) from my fork on Github on *Mon Aug 16, 2021*. Approved on **Aug 17**.

	**Sub**: <ins>Created Oracle Database 21c Installation Workshop (*ID# 7041*)</ins>

	Hello,

	I have developed a new workshop on 'Installing Oracle Database 21c on OCI Compute'. The workshop (#7041) is approved in LWMS. Please approve the pull request.

	~Thanks, MG

## Acknowledgements

 - **Author** - Manish Garodia, Team Database UAD
 - **Last Updated on** - February 19, (Sat) 2022
 - **Questions/Feedback?** - Blame [manish.garodia@oracle.com](./../../intro/files/email.md)
