common/lib-cellar/mg-library.md, before:

# MG Library : tell-me-how

![mg library](./../images/mg-library.png " ")

## Learn from errors

This lab contains topics developed from notes on specific areas. These notes converge from various sources, for example *discussions*, *trainings*, *experiments*, *mistakes*, and *failures*.

It also lists down videos and channels published on oTube.

<!--
- [Access VM and Configure VNC](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/access-vm-config-vnc/)
- [Compute Instance and Custom Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/compute-instance-custom-image/)
- [Oracle Database 21c Gold Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-db-goldimage/)
- [Install Oracle EMCC 13.5](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-emcc/)
-->

<if type="hidden">
[Open MG Library on Github](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/mg-library/)

[Open mg-playground in clone](http://127.0.0.1:5500/mg-playground/z-sandbox/)

[Open topic title list in clone](http://127.0.0.1:5500/mg-playground/topic-title/)
</if>

## Topics

Pick a topic and open it in a separate tab.

| sl # | Title                         | Description                |
|------|-------------------------------|----------------------------|
| 1    | [Virtual Machines - Real Acions](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/vm-real-axons/) | How to access VM and configure VNC. |
| 2    | [Oracle Database 21c Gold Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-db-goldimage/) | Pre-installation setup and post installation tasks for Oracle Database 21c gold image. It also discusses some troubleshooting scenarios and tips. |
| 3    | [Install Oracle EM 13.5](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-em/) | How to install Oracle EM on VM. It also discusses the pre-installation setup, troubleshooting tips, and the steps to deinstall EM. |
| 4    | [Into The Clouds](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/into-the-clouds/) | About the features and services in the OCI Tenancy, for example, noVNC, compute instance, custom images, object storage, compartments, to name a few. |
| 5    | [Fun with git-bits](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/fun-with-git-bits/) | All you need to know about git ![git](./procedures/fun-with-git-bits/images/git-black-small.png) to get going. |
| 6    | [Hands down in markdown](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/hands-down-in-md/) | About markdown basic formatting and tags |
| <if type="hidden">6-a    | [GitHub pull requests](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/github-pr/) | History of pull and merge requests for DBA Essentials workshops committed to OLL master on Github. </if> |
| 7    | [Zoom Barabar Zoom](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/zoom-barabar-zoom/) | How to integrate Zoom with Outlook, add plug-in for Outlook |
| 8    | [Linux -:- feed the penguin](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/linux-feed-penguin/) | Get hands dirty with Linux commands, tips, and tricks. |
| <if type="hidden">9    | Vi Editor | desc |
| 10    | Terraforms explained | desc </if> |
| 9    | working on it ... | suggest me some |

## oTube : : My *channels* and *videos* : :

Videos from meetings, presentations, demos, etc. posted on [oTube](https://otube.oracle.com/).

**Channels**

 - [mg library](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257943902)
 - [Tools and environment](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257957572)
<if type="hidden"> - [Project - Performance Hub OCI](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/261319662)
 - [Project - DBA Essentials Livelabs workshops](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257943952)</if>

**Videos - general**

| sl # | Name (hyperlinked)           | Description                          | Channel             | <if type="hidden">Last updated |</if>
|------|------------------------------|--------------------------------------|---------------------|
| <if type="hidden">0-a | [Masking screenshots, Convert from Confluence to Markdown](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_c9khlspm) | Vim session <br>by Manish Garodia on April 6, 22 | unlisted | July 7, 2022 (Thu)</if> |
| 1    | [Masking sensitive information in Web UI screenshots](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_0d43dk99) | Presentation <br>by Manish Garodia on April 6, 22  | [mg library](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257943902) | July 9, 22 (Sat) |
| 2    | [Convert content from Confluence to Markdown](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_q1wt1tmj) | Presentation <br>by Manish Garodia on April 6, 2022  | [mg library](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257943902) | July 9, 22 (Sat) |
| 3    | [Using variables in Oxygen](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_41cw944f)  | How to use variables in Oxygen XML Author 17.1 <br>by Suresh Mohan on July 07, 22 | [Tools and environment](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257957572) | July 7, 22 (Thu) |
| 4    | [Using conrefs in Oxygen](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_5dplbjir)  | How to use conrefs in Oxygen XML Author 17.1 <br>by Suresh Mohan on July 07, 22 | [Tools and environment](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257957572) | July 7, 22 (Thu) |
| 5    | [Install Oracle Enterprise Manager (Oracle EM)](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_rfywyxmo)  | How to install Oracle Enterprise Manager (Oracle EM) 13.5 <br>by Kurt Engeleiter on 28 June 21 | [Tools and environment](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257957572) | July 5, 22 (Tue) |
| 6 | [Using Oracle Review](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_zqfln2bg) | How to use Oracle Review for previewing UAT builds and providing comments <br>by Sarika Surampudi on Nov 09, 21 | [Tools and environment](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257957572) | Oct 9, 22 (Sun) |
| 7 | [Preview and publish content on OCI with CPP](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_dlf7sdav) | How to use Content Publishing Pipeline (CPP) for building previews and publishing content on the OCI portal <br>by Neil Hebert on Oct 04, 22 | [Tools and environment](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257957572) | Oct 4, 22 (Tue) |
| 8 | | | | |

<if type="hidden">
**Videos - project**

| sl # | Name (hyperlinked)           | Description                          | Channel             | Last updated |
|------|------------------------------|--------------------------------------|---------------------|--------------|
| 1    | [Performance Hub in OCI docs](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_h0l5pyuf) | Meeting with Diane Gaskill on 1 Feb 22 regarding Performance Hub documentation in OCI | [Performance Hub OCI](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/261319662) | July 5, 2022 (Tue) |
| 2    | [UA-PM meet 29 Jun 22](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_495mt4py) | UA/PM Meeting on 29 June 2022 regarding the migration of performance hub documentation from OCI to OHC | [Performance Hub OCI](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/261319662) | July 5, 2022 (Tue) |
| 3 | | | | |

## Links imgbb

Log in to [imgbb](https://manish-garodia.imgbb.com/) with G-account.

| sl # | Title (hyperlinked)                      | Link                  | Album                      |
|------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------|----------------------------|
| 1    | [Github fork ahead of main repo](https://ibb.co/7Kv05WS) 	      | `ibb.co/7Kv05WS`      	   | [What an image](https://ibb.co/album/LvW0JB)      |
| 2    | [Add Atom to github desktop 1](https://ibb.co/31dcPCh)           | `ibb.co/31dcPCh`           | [What an image](https://ibb.co/album/LvW0JB)      |
| 3    | [Add Atom to github desktop 2](https://ibb.co/N6yzT62)  	      | `ibb.co/N6yzT62`	       | [What an image](https://ibb.co/album/LvW0JB)      |
| 4    | [Perf-Hub toc placement](https://ibb.co/Dr8JwB2) 			      | `ibb.co/Dr8JwB2`		   | [What an image](https://ibb.co/album/LvW0JB)      |
| 5    | [passport-mayagarodia-color](https://ibb.co/12zp5xJ) 			  | `ibb.co/12zp5xJ`		   | [my-docs](https://ibb.co/album/CbDrM3)            |
| 6    | [passport-mayagarodia](https://ibb.co/D9JP8fC) 			      | `ibb.co/D9JP8fC`		   | [my-docs](https://ibb.co/album/CbDrM3)            |
| 7    | [mom-passport](https://ibb.co/h9PF2DD) 			              | `ibb.co/h9PF2DD`		   | [my-docs](https://ibb.co/album/CbDrM3)            |
| 8    |  |  |  |
| 9    |  |  |  |
| 10   |  |  |  |
| 11   |  |  |  |
| 12   |  |  |  |
| 13   |  |  |  |
| 14   |  |  |  |
| 15   | [MyLearning home - Badges, Achievements](https://ibb.co/02gNzth) | `ibb.co/02gNzth` 		   | [badges](https://ibb.co/album/tqNnc2) |
| 16   | [Oracle MySQL](https://ibb.co/KN0cxNH)   |  `ibb.co/KN0cxNH`     |  [badges](https://ibb.co/album/tqNnc2) 					   |
| 17   | [OCI Support Accreditation score](https://ibb.co/fkJMwM4)        | `ibb.co/fkJMwM4` 		   | [badges](https://ibb.co/album/tqNnc2) |
| 18   | [OCI Support Accreditation badge](https://ibb.co/mT46ZT0)        | `ibb.co/mT46ZT0` 		   | [badges](https://ibb.co/album/tqNnc2) |
| 19   |  |  |  |

</if>


## Acknowledgements

 - **Author** - Manish Garodia, Team Database UAD
 - **Last Updated on** - December 3, (Sun) 2022
 - **Questions/Feedback?** - Blame [manish.garodia@oracle.com](./../intro/files/email.md)

Commit message:

db lld, remove db-em ver, silly-lil, wordlist par url, linux find, file size MB, index
mg-library & index.html
- removed db and em versions from table
- added new lab silly little things to topics list

Created a new lab for common topics, silly little things
Created topic title for silly little things
Added task_type to manifest.json

github-pr:
- moved PRs under the top heading for 21c workshop series
- created a new top heading for 23c

install-db-goldimage:
- added a note on user who can deinstall db
- updated section dependent libs/pkgs to install db and how to fix the issue

into the clouds:
- new PAR for wordlist in mg personal tenancy
- removed tasks from H2

Linux: added
- See files size in a directory in MBs
- find specific file type in all subdirectories
- updated outputs from OL7.6 to OL8.6
- updated VM name to phoenix211284

VMs:
- removed tasks from H2

~MG

common/lib-cellar/mg-library.md, after:

# MG Library : tell-me-how

![mg library](./../images/mg-library.png " ")

## Learn from errors

This lab contains topics developed from notes on specific areas. These notes converge from various sources, for example *discussions*, *trainings*, *experiments*, *mistakes*, and *failures*.

It also lists down videos and channels published on oTube.

<!--
- [Access VM and Configure VNC](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/access-vm-config-vnc/)
- [Compute Instance and Custom Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/compute-instance-custom-image/)
- [Oracle Database 21c Gold Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-db-goldimage/)
- [Install Oracle EMCC 13.5](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-emcc/)
-->

<if type="hidden">
[Open MG Library on Github](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/mg-library/)

[Open mg-playground in clone](http://127.0.0.1:5500/mg-playground/z-sandbox/)

[Open topic title list in clone](http://127.0.0.1:5500/mg-playground/topic-title/)
</if>

## Topics

Pick a topic and open it in a separate tab.

| sl # | Title                         | Description                |
|------|-------------------------------|----------------------------|
| 1    | [Virtual Machines - Real Acions](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/vm-real-axons/) | How to access VM and configure VNC. |
| 2    | [Oracle Database Gold Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-db-goldimage/) | Pre-installation setup and post installation tasks for Oracle Database gold image. It also discusses some troubleshooting scenarios and tips. |
| 3    | [Install Oracle EM](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-em/) | How to install Oracle EM on VM. It also discusses the pre-installation setup, troubleshooting tips, and the steps to deinstall EM. |
| 4    | [Into the Clouds](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/into-the-clouds/) | About the features and services in the OCI Tenancy, for example, noVNC, compute instance, custom images, object storage, compartments, to name a few. |
| 5    | [Fun with git-bits](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/fun-with-git-bits/) | All you need to know about git ![git](./procedures/fun-with-git-bits/images/git-black-small.png) to get going. |
| 6    | [Hands down in markdown](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/hands-down-in-md/) | About markdown basic formatting and tags |
| <if type="hidden">6-a    | [GitHub pull requests](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/github-pr/) | History of pull and merge requests for DBA Essentials workshops committed to OLL master on Github. </if> |
| 7    | [Zoom Barabar Zoom](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/zoom-barabar-zoom/) | How to integrate Zoom with Outlook, add plug-in for Outlook |
| 8    | [Linux -:- feed the penguin](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/linux-feed-penguin/) | Get hands dirty with Linux commands, tips, and tricks. |
| 9     | [Silly little things](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/silly-little-things/) | General concepts, tips, and tricks on anyting and everything |
| <if type="hidden">9    | Vi Editor | desc |
| 11    | Terraforms explained | desc </if> |
| 10    | working on it ... | suggest me some |

## oTube : : My *channels* and *videos* : :

Videos from meetings, presentations, demos, etc. posted on [oTube](https://otube.oracle.com/).

**Channels**

 - [mg library](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257943902)
 - [Tools and environment](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257957572)
<if type="hidden"> - [Project - Performance Hub OCI](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/261319662)
 - [Project - DBA Essentials Livelabs workshops](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257943952)</if>

**Videos - general**

| sl # | Name (hyperlinked)           | Description                          | Channel             | <if type="hidden">Last updated |</if>
|------|------------------------------|--------------------------------------|---------------------|
| <if type="hidden">0-a | [Masking screenshots, Convert from Confluence to Markdown](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_c9khlspm) | Vim session <br>by Manish Garodia on April 6, 22 | unlisted | July 7, 2022 (Thu)</if> |
| 1    | [Masking sensitive information in Web UI screenshots](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_0d43dk99) | Presentation <br>by Manish Garodia on April 6, 22  | [mg library](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257943902) | July 9, 22 (Sat) |
| 2    | [Convert content from Confluence to Markdown](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_q1wt1tmj) | Presentation <br>by Manish Garodia on April 6, 2022  | [mg library](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257943902) | July 9, 22 (Sat) |
| 3    | [Using variables in Oxygen](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_41cw944f)  | How to use variables in Oxygen XML Author 17.1 <br>by Suresh Mohan on July 07, 22 | [Tools and environment](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257957572) | July 7, 22 (Thu) |
| 4    | [Using conrefs in Oxygen](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_5dplbjir)  | How to use conrefs in Oxygen XML Author 17.1 <br>by Suresh Mohan on July 07, 22 | [Tools and environment](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257957572) | July 7, 22 (Thu) |
| 5    | [Install Oracle Enterprise Manager (Oracle EM)](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_rfywyxmo)  | How to install Oracle Enterprise Manager (Oracle EM) 13.5 <br>by Kurt Engeleiter on 28 June 21 | [Tools and environment](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257957572) | July 5, 22 (Tue) |
| 6 | [Using Oracle Review](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_zqfln2bg) | How to use Oracle Review for previewing UAT builds and providing comments <br>by Sarika Surampudi on Nov 09, 21 | [Tools and environment](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257957572) | Oct 9, 22 (Sun) |
| 7 | [Preview and publish content on OCI with CPP](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_dlf7sdav) | How to use Content Publishing Pipeline (CPP) for building previews and publishing content on the OCI portal <br>by Neil Hebert on Oct 04, 22 | [Tools and environment](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/257957572) | Oct 4, 22 (Tue) |
| 8 | | | | |

<if type="hidden">
**Videos - project**

| sl # | Name (hyperlinked)           | Description                          | Channel             | Last updated |
|------|------------------------------|--------------------------------------|---------------------|--------------|
| 1    | [Performance Hub in OCI docs](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_h0l5pyuf) | Meeting with Diane Gaskill on 1 Feb 22 regarding Performance Hub documentation in OCI | [Performance Hub OCI](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/261319662) | July 5, 2022 (Tue) |
| 2    | [UA-PM meet 29 Jun 22](https://otube.oracle.com/media/t/1_495mt4py) | UA/PM Meeting on 29 June 2022 regarding the migration of performance hub documentation from OCI to OHC | [Performance Hub OCI](https://otube.oracle.com/channel/t/261319662) | July 5, 2022 (Tue) |
| 3 | | | | |

## Links imgbb

Log in to [imgbb](https://manish-garodia.imgbb.com/) with G-account.

| sl # | Title (hyperlinked)                      | Link                  | Album                      |
|------|------------------------------------------|-----------------------|----------------------------|
| 1    | [Github fork ahead of main repo](https://ibb.co/7Kv05WS) 	      | `ibb.co/7Kv05WS`      	   | [What an image](https://ibb.co/album/LvW0JB)      |
| 2    | [Add Atom to github desktop 1](https://ibb.co/31dcPCh)           | `ibb.co/31dcPCh`           | [What an image](https://ibb.co/album/LvW0JB)      |
| 3    | [Add Atom to github desktop 2](https://ibb.co/N6yzT62)  	      | `ibb.co/N6yzT62`	       | [What an image](https://ibb.co/album/LvW0JB)      |
| 4    | [Perf-Hub toc placement](https://ibb.co/Dr8JwB2) 			      | `ibb.co/Dr8JwB2`		   | [What an image](https://ibb.co/album/LvW0JB)      |
| 5    | [passport-mayagarodia-color](https://ibb.co/12zp5xJ) 			  | `ibb.co/12zp5xJ`		   | [my-docs](https://ibb.co/album/CbDrM3)            |
| 6    | [passport-mayagarodia](https://ibb.co/D9JP8fC) 			      | `ibb.co/D9JP8fC`		   | [my-docs](https://ibb.co/album/CbDrM3)            |
| 7    | [mom-passport](https://ibb.co/h9PF2DD) 			              | `ibb.co/h9PF2DD`		   | [my-docs](https://ibb.co/album/CbDrM3)            |
| 8    |  |  |  |
| 9    |  |  |  |
| 10   |  |  |  |
| 11   |  |  |  |
| 12   |  |  |  |
| 13   |  |  |  |
| 14   |  |  |  |
| 15   | [MyLearning home - Badges, Achievements](https://ibb.co/02gNzth) | `ibb.co/02gNzth` 		   | [badges](https://ibb.co/album/tqNnc2) |
| 16   | [Oracle MySQL](https://ibb.co/KN0cxNH)   |  `ibb.co/KN0cxNH`     |  [badges](https://ibb.co/album/tqNnc2) 					   |
| 17   | [OCI Support Accreditation score](https://ibb.co/fkJMwM4)        | `ibb.co/fkJMwM4` 		   | [badges](https://ibb.co/album/tqNnc2) |
| 18   | [OCI Support Accreditation badge](https://ibb.co/mT46ZT0)        | `ibb.co/mT46ZT0` 		   | [badges](https://ibb.co/album/tqNnc2) |
| 19   |  |  |  |

</if>


## Acknowledgements

 - **Author** - ♏🅰️♑❗💲♓ Team Database UAD
 - **Last Updated on** - March 11, (Sat) 2023
 - **Questions/Feedback?** - Blame [manish.garodia@oracle.com](./../intro/files/email.md)
