common/mg-library/mg-library.md, before:

# MG Library

## Introduction

This lab contains a list of various topics. Select a topic to open it in a separate tab. 

<!--
- [Access VM and Configure VNC](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/access-vm-config-vnc/)
- [Compute Instance and Custom Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/compute-instance-custom-image/)
- [Oracle Database 21c Gold Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-db-goldimage/)
- [Install Oracle EMCC 13.5](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-emcc/)
-->

<if type="hidden">
[Link to MG Library on Github](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/mg-library/)

[Link to topic title on clone](http://127.0.0.1:3001/mg-playground/topic-title/)
</if>

## List of topics

| sl # | Title                         | Description                |
|------|-------------------------------|----------------------------|
| 1    | [Access VM and Configure VNC](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/access-vm-config-vnc/) | How to access the VM and configure the VNC. |
| 2    | [Oracle Database 21c Gold Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-db-goldimage/) | Pre-installation setup and post installation tasks for Oracle Database 21c gold image. It also discusses some troubleshooting scenarios and tips. |
| 3    | [Install Oracle EMCC 13.5](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-emcc/) | How to install Oracle EMCC on VM. It also discusses the pre-installation setup, troubleshooting tips, and the steps to deinstall EMCC. |
| 4    | [Compute Instance and Custom Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/compute-instance-custom-image/) | How to create and manage compute instances and custom images in the OCI tenancy. |
| 5    | Fun with Git and markdown | wip |
| 6    | working on it ... | ... |

## Acknowledgements

 - **Author** - Manish Garodia, Team Database UAD
 - **Last Updated on** - February 1, (Tue) 2022

Commit message:

updated readme, manifests, added images
- readme: added feedback contact under acknowledgements,
- start-here: Updated the description of landing page, removed all labs,
  kept only landing page and mg-library
- sandbox: updated description of landing page and mg-library, added
  topic for fun with git, and hands down in markdown
- mg-library: updated the intro text, added new rows for git and
  markdown labs, added feedback contact to acknowledgements, updated the
  manifest
- added github logos

common/mg-library/mg-library.md, after:

# MG Library

## Introduction

This lab contains a list of topics developed from notes on specific areas. These notes converge from various sources, for example discussions, trainings, experiments, and failures. 

Select a topic to open its lab in a separate tab.

<!--
- [Access VM and Configure VNC](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/access-vm-config-vnc/)
- [Compute Instance and Custom Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/compute-instance-custom-image/)
- [Oracle Database 21c Gold Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-db-goldimage/)
- [Install Oracle EMCC 13.5](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-emcc/)
-->

<if type="hidden">
[Link to MG Library on Github](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/mg-library/)

[Link to topic title on clone](http://127.0.0.1:3001/mg-playground/topic-title/)
</if>

## List of topics

| sl # | Title                         | Description                |
|------|-------------------------------|----------------------------|
| 1    | [Access VM and Configure VNC](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/access-vm-config-vnc/) | How to access the VM and configure the VNC. |
| 2    | [Oracle Database 21c Gold Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-db-goldimage/) | Pre-installation setup and post installation tasks for Oracle Database 21c gold image. It also discusses some troubleshooting scenarios and tips. |
| 3    | [Install Oracle EMCC 13.5](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/install-emcc/) | How to install Oracle EMCC on VM. It also discusses the pre-installation setup, troubleshooting tips, and the steps to deinstall EMCC. |
| 4    | [Compute Instance and Custom Image](https://manish-garodia.github.io/mg-playground/topic-title/compute-instance-custom-image/) | How to create and manage compute instances and custom images in the OCI tenancy. |
| 5    | Fun with git-bits | All you need to know to get going ![git](./../images/git-black-small.png) |
| 6    | Hands down in markdown | wip |
| 7    | working on it ... | suggest me some |

## Acknowledgements

 - **Author** - Manish Garodia, Team Database UAD
 - **Last Updated on** - February 1, (Tue) 2022
 - **Questions/Feedback?** - Write to [manish.garodia@oracle.com](./../intro/files/email.md)
