projects/dba-essentials-test/em-dba/access-homepage/access-homepage.md, before:

# Access Container Homepage from Cloud Control

## Introduction

This lab walks you through the steps to access the container homepage from Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control (Oracle EMCC). You will also learn how to switch between containers and manage your favorites.

Estimated Time: 15 minutes

**Note:** To run the labs and tasks related to Oracle EMCC, you would need Oracle Database 21c and the listener as managed targets in Oracle EMCC. If you have removed the Oracle Database and the listener from Oracle EMCC as per the previous lab, add them again as managed targets. 

### Objectives

Log in to Oracle EMCC and access the container homepage. Switch between the Container Database (CDB) homepage and the Pluggable Database (PDB) homepage. Add pages to and remove pages from the favorites.

### Prerequisites

 - Oracle Database 21c installed and a CDB with at least one PDB created.
 - Oracle EMCC 13.5 installed with Oracle Database 19c as the repository.
 - You have completed -
    - Lab: Prepare Setup (*Free-tier* and *Paid Tenants* only)
    - Lab: Setup Compute Instance
    - Lab: Initialize Environment
    - Lab: Log in to Oracle EMCC
 - You have added Oracle Database 21c and the listener as managed targets as explained in this task - [Add Oracle Database and Listener as targets](?lab=manage-targets#Task2:AddOracleDatabaseandListenerastargets).

## Task 1: Access Container Homepage

1.  From the **Targets** menu, select **Databases**.

    ![Databases Menu](images/emcc-target-005-dbmenu.png)

    The Databases page displays a list of Oracle Databases added to Oracle EMCC as managed targets.   
	The values may differ depending on the system you are using.  

    ![Target Added](images/emcc-target-014-dbhome.png)

<!-- EMCC UI changed
2.  On the Databases page, select the Oracle Database name, for example *orcl.us.oracle.com*, and go to **View** > **Expand All Below**. 

    ![Databases Expand All](images/emcc-dbhome-001-expandall.png)

    Alternatively, click on the expand/collapse arrow next to the Oracle Database name. The list displays the database instance and the PDBs for each Oracle Database on the host.

    ![Databases List](images/emcc-dbhome-002-dblist.png)-->

2.  Under Database Load Map, the default **View Level** is *Database*. 
	You can change the view level to: 
	 - *Instance*: To display the Database Instance name.
	 - *Pluggable Database*: To display the CDB and PDBs in each database. 

3.  Click on the container name to access the container homepage.

    **Container homepage**: If you click the Oracle Database instance name, for example *orcl.us.oracle.com*, it brings up the instance homepage.

    ![Oracle Database Instance Homepage](images/emcc-dbhome-003-instancehome.png)

    **PDB homepage**: If you click the PDB name, for example *orclpdb*, it brings up the PDB homepage.

    ![PDB Homepage](images/emcc-dbhome-004-pdbhome.png)

From the homepage, you can monitor and administer your Oracle Database.

## Task 2: Switch between Containers

You can alter the session and switch between containers in Oracle EMCC within a single login.

This means that from the Database Instance homepage, you can switch to the CDB or the PDB homepage without logging out of Oracle EMCC. Similarly, from the PDB homepage, you can switch to the CDB or to another PDB homepage, if more than one PDB exists in the CDB.

1.  Open the container homepage for the Oracle Database instance as explained in *Task 1*.   

2.  Click the down arrow next to the container and select **All Containers**.

    ![All Containers](images/emcc-dbhome-005-allcontainers.png)

3.  Select the CDB name, *CDB$ROOT*, from the containers list and click **OK**.  

    ![Container List](images/emcc-dbhome-006-containerlistcdb.png)

    It brings up the CDB homepage. 

    ![CDB Homepage](images/emcc-dbhome-007-cdbhome.png)

    Similarly, select the PDB name, for example *orclpdb*, from the containers list to open the PDB homepage.

    ![PDB Homepage](images/emcc-dbhome-004-pdbhome.png)

    **Note**: To jump from one container to another quickly, click the down arrow followed by the container name. The window displays the selected container homepage.

    ![Select Container](images/emcc-dbhome-008-selectcontainer.png)

	> You cannot open the Database Instance homepage from the CDB or the PDB homepage. To open the Database Instance homepage, go to the Databases page and click on the Database Instance name, for example *orcl.us.oracle.com*, as explained in *Task 1*. 

## Task 3: View Target Information

To view information about a target or to monitor a target, open the target homepage. 

1.  Open the container homepage for the Oracle Database instance as explained in *Task 1*.   

2.  From the **Oracle Database** menu, select **Target Information**. 

    ![Target Information](images/emcc-dbhome-009-targetinfo.png)

    Alternatively, you can click on the icon (i) next to the container name.

    ![Container Information](images/emcc-dbhome-010-containerinfo.png)

    The window displays the details of the target container.   

3.  Switch the container to PDB and view PDB details. Click the down arrow next to the container and select the PDB name, *orclpdb*.  
    The values may differ depending on the system you are using.

    ![Select ORCLPDB](images/emcc-dbhome-011-selectpdb.png)

    It opens the PDB homepage.  

4.  From the **Oracle Database** menu, select **Target Information**.  
    Alternatively, click the icon (i) next to the PDB name, *orclpdb*.

    ![PDB Information](images/emcc-dbhome-012-pdbinfo.png)

    Similarly, open the CDB homepage and view details of the target CDB.

    ![CDB Information](images/emcc-dbhome-013-cdbinfo.png)

## Task 4: Manage Your Favorites

You can add pages to the favorites and bookmark them in Oracle EMCC for easy access. Similarly, you can remove pages from the favorites.

1.  Open the page that you want to bookmark. For example, go to the CDB homepage as explained in *Task 2*.

    ![CDB Information](images/emcc-dbhome-007-cdbhome.png)

2.  To add a page to favorites, click the **Favorites** menu (star icon) and select **Add Page to Favorites**.

    ![Image alt text](images/emcc-dbhome-014-favoriteadd.png)

    The window displays a confirmation message that you have added the active page to favorites.   

3.  To remove a page from favorites, click on the **Favorites** menu (star icon) and select **Remove Page from Favorites**.

    ![Image alt text](images/emcc-dbhome-015-favoriteremove.png)

    The window displays a confirmation message that you have removed the page from favorites.

    Moreover, you can open a recently visited page from the **History** menu in Oracle EMCC. 

    ![Image alt text](images/emcc-dbhome-016-history.png)

This brings you towards the successful completion of this workshop on *Oracle EM Database Administration (DBA)*.

## Acknowledgements

-   **Author** - Manish Garodia, Principal User Assistance Developer, Database Technologies

-   **Contributors** - Suresh Rajan, Kurt Engeleiter

-   **Last Updated By/Date** - Manish Garodia, October 2021

Commit message:

(ID# 7141) Updated the labs from self-review
Modified the following as per self-review.

In the manage-targets lab:
- Modified the objectives
- Added more details and steps to Task 2
- Modified the steps in Task 3
- Renamed a few images

In the access-homepage lab:
- Moved the note to the prerequisites section
- Removed the step in Task 1 related to Database Load map

Other general changes:
- Removed the if condition from the intro lab
- Updated initialize-environment and added the names of the database instance and the listener for Oracle Database 21c
- Replaced the screenshots and added new images to the manage-targets and access-homepage labs
- Removed the comments tags from manage-targets and access-homepage, and moved the content to rendered output
- Also, updated the month to Nov in the acknowledgements section across all labs

projects/dba-essentials-test/em-dba/access-homepage/access-homepage.md, after:

# Access Container Homepage from Cloud Control

## Introduction

This lab walks you through the steps to access the container homepage from Oracle Enterprise Manager Cloud Control (Oracle EMCC). You will also learn how to switch between containers and manage your favorites.

Estimated Time: 15 minutes

### Objectives

Access the container homepage from Oracle EMCC. Switch between the Container Database (CDB) homepage and the Pluggable Database (PDB) homepage. Add pages to and remove pages from the favorites.

### Prerequisites

 - Oracle Database 21c installed and a CDB with at least one PDB created.
 - Oracle EMCC 13.5 installed with Oracle Database 19c as the repository.
 - You have completed -
    - Lab: Prepare Setup (*Free-tier* and *Paid Tenants* only)
    - Lab: Setup Compute Instance
    - Lab: Initialize Environment
    - Lab: Log in to Oracle EMCC
 - You have added Oracle Database 21c and the listener as managed targets as explained in this task - [Add Oracle Database and Listener as targets](?lab=manage-targets#Task2:AddOracleDatabaseandListenerastargets).

**Note:** If you have removed the targets Oracle Database 21c and the target listener from Oracle EMCC as per the previous lab, add them again as managed targets. 

## Task 1: Access Container Homepage

1.  From the **Targets** menu, select **Databases**.

    ![Databases Menu](../manage-targets/images/emcc-target-005-dbmenu.png)

    The Databases page displays a list of Oracle Databases added to Oracle EMCC as managed targets. Note that the **View** type selected is **Search list**.   
	The values may differ depending on the system you are using.  

    ![Target Added](../manage-targets/images/emcc-target-014-dbhome.png)

2.  On the Databases page, select the Oracle Database name, for example *orcl.us.oracle.com*, and go to **View** > **Expand All Below**. 

    ![Databases Expand All](images/emcc-dbhome-001-expandall.png)

    Alternatively, click on the expand/collapse arrow next to the Oracle Database name. The list displays the database instance and the PDBs for each Oracle Database on the host.

    ![Databases List](images/emcc-dbhome-002-dblist.png)

3.  Click on the container name to access the container homepage.

    **Container homepage**: If you click the Oracle Database instance name, for example *orcl.us.oracle.com*, it brings up the instance homepage.

    ![Oracle Database Instance Homepage](images/emcc-dbhome-003-instancehome.png)

    **PDB homepage**: If you click the PDB name, for example *orclpdb*, it brings up the PDB homepage.

    ![PDB Homepage](images/emcc-dbhome-004-pdbhome.png)

From the homepage, you can monitor and administer your Oracle Database.

## Task 2: Switch between Containers

You can alter the session and switch between containers in Oracle EMCC within a single login.

This means that from the Database Instance homepage, you can switch to the CDB or the PDB homepage without logging out of Oracle EMCC. Similarly, from the PDB homepage, you can switch to the CDB or to another PDB homepage, if more than one PDB exists in the CDB.

1.  Open the container homepage for the Oracle Database instance as explained in *Task 1*.   

2.  Click the down arrow next to the container and select **All Containers**.

    ![All Containers](images/emcc-dbhome-005-allcontainers.png)

3.  Select the CDB name, *CDB$ROOT*, from the containers list and click **OK**.  

    ![Container List](images/emcc-dbhome-006-containerlistcdb.png)

    It brings up the CDB homepage. 

    ![CDB Homepage](images/emcc-dbhome-007-cdbhome.png)

    Similarly, select the PDB name, for example *orclpdb*, from the containers list to open the PDB homepage.

    ![PDB Homepage](images/emcc-dbhome-004-pdbhome.png)

    **Note**: To jump from one container to another quickly, click the down arrow followed by the container name. The window displays the selected container homepage.

    ![Select Container](images/emcc-dbhome-008-selectcontainer.png)

	> You cannot open the Database Instance homepage from the CDB or the PDB homepage. To open the Database Instance homepage, go to the Databases page and click on the Database Instance name, for example *orcl.us.oracle.com*, as explained in *Task 1*. 

## Task 3: View Target Information

To view information about a target or to monitor a target, open the target homepage. 

1.  Open the container homepage for the Oracle Database instance as explained in *Task 1*.   

2.  From the **Oracle Database** menu, select **Target Information**. 

    ![Target Information](images/emcc-dbhome-009-targetinfo.png)

    Alternatively, you can click on the icon (i) next to the container name.

    ![Container Information](images/emcc-dbhome-010-containerinfo.png)

    The window displays the details of the target container.   

3.  Switch the container to PDB and view PDB details. Click the down arrow next to the container and select the PDB name, *orclpdb*.  
    The values may differ depending on the system you are using.

    ![Select ORCLPDB](images/emcc-dbhome-011-selectpdb.png)

    It opens the PDB homepage.  

4.  From the **Oracle Database** menu, select **Target Information**.  
    Alternatively, click the icon (i) next to the PDB name, *orclpdb*.

    ![PDB Information](images/emcc-dbhome-012-pdbinfo.png)

    Similarly, open the CDB homepage and view details of the target CDB.

    ![CDB Information](images/emcc-dbhome-013-cdbinfo.png)

## Task 4: Manage Your Favorites

You can add pages to the favorites and bookmark them in Oracle EMCC for easy access. Similarly, you can remove pages from the favorites.

1.  Open the page that you want to bookmark. For example, go to the CDB homepage as explained in *Task 2*.

    ![CDB Information](images/emcc-dbhome-007-cdbhome.png)

2.  To add a page to favorites, click the **Favorites** menu (star icon) and select **Add Page to Favorites**.

    ![Image alt text](images/emcc-dbhome-014-favoriteadd.png)

    The window displays a confirmation message that you have added the active page to favorites.   

3.  To remove a page from favorites, click on the **Favorites** menu (star icon) and select **Remove Page from Favorites**.

    ![Image alt text](images/emcc-dbhome-015-favoriteremove.png)

    The window displays a confirmation message that you have removed the page from favorites.

    Moreover, you can open a recently visited page from the **History** menu in Oracle EMCC. 

    ![Image alt text](images/emcc-dbhome-016-history.png)

This brings you towards the successful completion of this workshop on *Oracle EM Database Administration (DBA)*.

## Acknowledgements

-   **Author** - Manish Garodia, Principal User Assistance Developer, Database Technologies

-   **Contributors** - Suresh Rajan, Kurt Engeleiter

-   **Last Updated By/Date** - Manish Garodia, November 2021
